so
um
yo
hey
hey what's going on everybody good
morning good afternoon good evening no
matter where you're coming from hope you
all are doing well
welcome back folks
hope everyone's doing good hope everyone
had a a good wednesday
and now we're ready for thursday's class
good to see y'all
saw a lot of y'all in here real early
like an hour or two before stream
started checking in here hey what's
going on everybody welcome welcome
welcome
get in here get in here
shout out to all the folks that uh
are running home from work jumping on
their computers to be here
respect what's going on everybody
what's going on what's going on
indifferent thank you for uh for
reposting the the check-in link i
appreciate you
already folks good class tonight i i
like this class this is a good class uh
this class tonight we uh we're gonna get
a lot of review in a lot of review a lot
of practice it's all about practice
tonight folks all about practice we're
going to practice our relationship
selectors we're going to practice our
specificity we're going to practice our
box model go deeper with the box model
we're going to practice
everything that we've kind of seen so
far in terms of html and css lots of
rounds of of working through code on
your own and working through code
together we got the bro already
right
so if you feel if you feel like things
everything hasn't clicked yet that's
okay that's tonight's class is to get
you getting lots of hands on keyboard
lots of practice then us doing it
together so you can see my responses
we're gonna go over some of the stuff
that was uh due for homework today so
you'll get to see some some walkthroughs
of that work as well we'll save a bunch
of it for our for our sunday office
hours as well but
lots of practice
and then we're going to hint at
responsiveness so responsiveness is
making sure that our layouts uh work
well and look good across multiple
devices whether it be a desktop a tablet
a mobile phone and so we're also going
to hint at that tonight we're going to
see the main mechanism that enables you
to build responsive websites and then
all next week will just be deep diving
into responsiveness so glad you're here
glad to get some uh get some practice in
all right be a good one have some fun uh
but as always
i'd like to start off with questions
around here folks we like to start off
with questions and so
the question of the evening
is would you rather be a superhero or
a wizard
so hero or wizard in in chat for me
please hero wizard for me in chat ooh
look at the wizards coming in
you hear is it
all into
look at all the wizards
what that's wild to me
i mean i'm i'm definitely going wizard
but i didn't think it would be this
overwhelming
y'all from reddit that's what it is
y'all from reddit you also wizard people
that's what y'all are
definitely some wizards
oh wow there's a lot okay there there's
some heroes coming through some folks
that want to be uh super saiyans but
rude
i i i have my like 12 or 13-year badge
on reddit so like i i that ain't no
shade that's me
i've been there y'all i've been in the
trenches
okay all right i think i think it's
pretty this is a wrap this is definitely
in the in the wizards it was its
category i i didn't know if it would be
uh
i didn't know if it would be more heroey
this time but not y'all there's some
heroes but it's mainly wizards all right
cool
thank you for sharing everybody how
about regular questions as we let folks
get in
you you ran and got the kids and now
you're jumping in front of the computer
let's give those folks a second or two
to get in here
questions i always like to start off
with questions
what is your hype intro song i actually
don't know the name of it
um believe it or not it just comes with
stream like the stream deck software
like like stream deck has a bunch of
sounds that you can just click and
install
and i went through like all of them
and found this one
different said how are you i'm doing
good
today was a pretty chill day for me uh
excited to to to get into this lecture
this is a fun one i just like i like the
ones where we just practice a lot i
think it helps a lot of folks and i
think it's fun to like
goof around and find selectors that we
would never do in real life but we can
have some fun with it i like that
um
i was working on a special project i
don't want to mention it yet uh but
i'll mention it i i we have a lot of
folks that have been asking about like a
minecraft server
and i didn't want to do another
minecraft service cohort just because
not everyone can play minecraft for free
right now this is also assuming that you
have like a
a computer that can play it right but um
minecraft's not free so i don't want to
do another server but i i have a
64-person
cs go server right now
64-person cs go server that i've been
setting up and so that's been a lot of
fun i've been playing around getting the
settings dialed in uh so cs go is
completely free it can run on a potato
uh so maybe maybe this weekend it'll
i'll open it up just to get some
practice in but yes that's been
something fun that i was working on
there's also like csgo on consoles too
but
bless you if you can do do that with a
console with a controller
other questions just to give folks a
second to get in here i always like to
start off with a question who's your
smash bros name i'm not like super i'm
not like i'm not like good at smash
brothers let's just put that out there
i'm not good at it i love
ganondorf i like the heavy characters
um
i'll play around with that
uh
a lot of my friends play
zelda so i've been playing a little bit
a little bit of a little bit of zelda
recently
then i like some of the pokemon
characters dude i love pikachu
i i get myself in too much trouble with
pikachu
or two more questions and we'll get in
here
when can we meet your pets uh
one of the days when they like feel like
they want to come in here and just hang
out a little bit we'll set up the the
simba cam and yeah they got to get
comfortable with me streaming again and
then once once they know i'm like this
is stream time they'll start coming in
more and i'll put them on and then
eventually we'll set up the simba cam
a lot of people saying pokemon legends
i'm excited i'm excited
the bingo link is exclamation point
bingo
what linux distro do you like the most
debian
a debian person
can we go over grid we're going to get
to flex and grid next week you know
all right folks i think we got i think
we got the the gangs all here uh let's
get into tonight
let's get into kind of what we're going
to be covering
uh we're going to be reviewing some of
our html fundamentals yes we're going
all the way back folks all the way back
we we love to get our space repetition
in around these parts right love to get
our space repetition in underneath in
these parts then we're going to hit up
some css fundamentals we're going to
move into the box model
we're going to do a floats and then
we're gonna do our layouts you know what
i forgot to do
i'm just realizing it now
i didn't send out the email today
i'm glad you're all here but now we get
to know how people show up when i don't
send out the email versus when i do send
out the email
uh so rip sorry folks that rely on the
email to get here but i forgot it
that's weird
hey dab thank you for the five gift it
subs
there's an email yeah there's an email
we got like almost 12 000 people on the
email list and it goes out before each
class
[Music]
exclamation point newsletter if you're
not on there you can do estimation point
newsletter if you want to join the email
list
but uh yeah
rip
i didn't set up the email
oh that's a bummer all right well
hopefully folks find their way over
alrighty
we're going to review our html
fundamentals we're going to go over our
css fundamentals
matinee hey thank you for the 10 gift
itself that's wild thank you so much
batney831 thank you for the gift all the
gifted subs i appreciate that
we're going to go over the box model uh
we're going to go over floats again a
little bit we're going to see layouts
with floats again i know how there we're
going to review the layouts that are due
today and then we're just going to hint
on a little bit of responsive basics
just the the little key mechanisms that
we need right the key mechanisms that we
need
to to make sure that our sites are
responsive
cool
and then
homework will be to make the simple site
uh the the simple layout that we go over
at the end of class responsive we'll
talk about that at the end
cool all right good questions if you're
new around here would like to check in
at the beginning of each class
exclamation point check in all right
estimation point check in
you can go ahead and like and retweet
that please i appreciate it
and that just helps more folks find our
community hopefully save them a few
bucks and learning how to code i'm glad
you're all here and thank you always for
checking in i'd love to read the
messages that you put on those is always
pretty funny
alrighty
you checked in
uh the next big thing that was in the
discord message for today um the message
that was in discord today uh always has
the materials that you need so if you're
new or you're watching on say youtube
you can always go to our discord
leonardo.com
discord or if you're here live on twitch
it's exclamation point discord
on discord we always have the materials
we always have the ability for you to
download the things that you need to
download for the for the class but i
also share a lot of links for you that
you're going to need for the class
and one of those
was our student our study community
survey so we've talked a lot about
making
smaller study communities that folks can
join
to just have a smaller more intimate
experience as they go through 100 devs
and so
that survey is live now
you can click the link that's in the
slides or you can look at the discord
message that had the link
you don't want to fill it out right now
don't worry about it you have until
tuesday to fill it out but take until
tuesday to fill it out
and
on tuesday
we'll kind of compile them all and we're
going to start kind of figuring out how
how many we're going to have and who's
going to go into what and so yeah make
sure you fill out that survey if you're
interested and then we're going to start
getting folks into those communities
don't worry if you've already filled it
out that's great just saying you don't
the russian do it right now so
our idea of the study community is just
a smaller group of folks
that are tied together by some sort of
bond whether it be affinity or identity
or location and so go ahead and fill
that out and we're going to kind of
compile
a good group of them and turn them into
special spaces on discord so they'll
have their own chat their own voice
channels etc
we lose access to more general channels
no not at all these are just like
special or places for folks to have
access to just because the general
the general channels on discord can be
uh quite overwhelming
right uh quite overwhelming we we
recently have a bunch of memers
that are uh that are just i don't know
how you all type so much
but some of you all be in that discord i
look at your messages you got like 400
messages in the last hour i just don't
know how you do it um but sometimes
those groups can be a little a little
overwhelming and so uh we want to have
smaller groups where where you can you
can you can kind of get to know each
other a little bit better chat will go a
little bit slower right
and uh yeah that's the whole point so
it's just kind of like to give you a
smaller group where you can get to know
folks and and kind of commiserate and go
through the experience together
cool
all right so go ahead you have until
tuesday to fill it out
uh the survey kind of lists the
different things that you might be
interested in we do have an other
category where you can list like some
other options for us to separate them by
commas you can put in more than one
location if you want just separate it by
comma
and we're gonna kind of compile the most
commonly asked and turn them into groups
the link is here on the slides and it's
on discord in the following materials
channel for today
too oh
alrighty
don't worry about filling out the form
again it won't it won't change anything
this isn't the the final form that gets
you into it it's the form for us to set
up the the most common channels
can we get confirmation that we turned
in the homework uh no i mean if you
filled out the form you're good don't
worry about it yeah you're fine
when you when you fill out the forms
there's like a confirmation page as long
as you see that confirmation page you're
always good
yeah don't worry about it
cool
tomorrow alumni twitter space uh we got
we got three wonderful alumni uh that
are going to
uh join us in the twitter space
including one of our fabulous mods here
blog and so
join us tomorrow on twitter at six
o'clock i'm gonna share the space on
discord and via email uh so you'll
you'll get the actual link to the space
um so you can join us if you would like
and we're gonna have three alumni there
we're going to use slido so you can ask
a bunch of questions and i'll kind of
help moderate and ask questions to the
alumni that are there you get to hear
kind of about their background and their
experience and
how they got to where they are aka
employed uh and so i think it'd be cool
we got a pretty wide range of past
experience um
and and i think that will be really
helpful for folks that are trying to
find their way as well so tomorrow if
you want to join us twitter space with
alumni we're going to do these a little
bit more frequently uh bring in more
folks over time it'll be recorded so
don't worry if you miss it you'll be
able to watch the listen to the
recording if you want
is it mobile device friendly yes it
actually only really works well on
mobile
um
you can listen to it in the in on your
desktop or in the browser but the
experience is almost always better on
mobile for some reason
how does it work
i'll share a link you tap the link and
you just kind of jump into a voice
channel basically uh it's a big voice
channel but only the folks that are
speakers can talk you can like raise
your hand and like like stuff and then
we can bring up folks that want to ask
questions if we want but we're going to
be using slido for questions mainly yeah
yep
can we have a wizard's channel
alrighty
submitting work
uh we have a little bit of work that has
to be submitted today well quite a lot
of work needs to be sent today uh one is
the simple site labs that was due today
that was the one with the the learn with
leon logo in it and the beautiful colors
and then your layouts were due today as
well so
you can use codepen you can use glitch
you can use replit i'm not just going to
say glitch anymore because we bring them
down every time and i don't want us to
do that to them anymore so codepen
glitch replit share out the wealth
the idea is i just want to see your html
and css i don't care about you having
good image links i don't care about
stuff being connected i just want to see
the html i want to see the css so uh
throw them into separate code pens or
separate glitches and then submit them
in the form
yeah don't worry about images especially
like on co-pins people have like trouble
with them there don't worry codepen
glitch replit whatever whatever you can
just
just to make it a little bit easier
and not to bring down servers
whoa
izzy with the pokemon card that's dope
all right izzy send me i'll send you uh
well i'll send you a whisper
uh and uh we gotta we gotta get that
coming to you but we have to do
the uh random drawing uh so
let's see
get
which one it is let's see pokemon
here we go
all right so
here is the current
pokemon cards
uh so izzy just used i think it's 50k
right now
uh yeah 50k channel points and
we're gonna do a random
for one of the cards so we have
slots
um if we hit one we just redo it again
but uh or sorry if we hit one or two we
just redo it again
um but yeah anything from three to 64
counts and we're just going to do it
randomly
all right we're going to do it randomly
and we're gonna do it live
so let's just go ahead and
open up an inspector
go to console
make this bigger
oop
i know we had the math.random there we
go
all right so we got math.random times
64.
so what this what this is saying for for
folks that are new
um
is we we have something built into
javascript called math.random
which can return a random number between
zero and one
and so we're going to do is we're going
to times that by 64
and
round it so we should get a number
between 1 and 64. so whatever number
this is is the card that they get so
one
41 is it and 41 is a
smoothie
i'll get that to you um
and i'll send you a
message here on twitch
make sure that goes your way
too loud yeah that was loud
alrighty congrats
so yeah channel points are fun folks
the more you hang out the more channel
points you get uh the the more cool
stuff you can do
congrats izzy all right so we got our
submitting our homework
that was uh 50 000 channel points
alrighty a couple things i want to talk
about before we jump into the practice
tonight
uh one we hinted at it a little bit last
class but i want to bring it up again
sleep
you need to get good sleep if you're
lucky you can get good sleep but please
make it a priority please don't put
way too much time into studying that it
impacts your sleep because we're here
for the long run
memory consolidation is a real thing and
it happens while you're sleeping and so
yes i'm going to share some
videos
uh that have some motivational talks in
them and sometimes these people will say
don't sleep
i don't agree
you're going to need sleep if you want
to learn how to code this is this is not
something that you can sheer force of
will
this is not something that you can
grind for 12 14 hours a day and expect
to actually retain it all so that when
you're in an interview you do well
you gotta prioritize sleep
okay
now
i've been there i i get it i get where i
get where hustle coaster comes for i get
where i get where grind culture comes
from i i have had some wonderful
experiences in my life that have been
the result
of not sleeping but let me tell you
the dark side
the dark side of success right so i
always joke that the the very first like
money that i raised for my first like
one of my first real businesses um
the first hundred thousand dollars i
raised let's say that uh all happened
because i slept underneath my desk
okay
so me and my co-founder we were going
through a program called tech stars
and we would stay up really late
grinding away coding building
right and we would be so tired that we
didn't want to walk home so we would
sleep underneath our desks
and then
on fridays we would have uh these vcs
that would come in
and they would bring donuts and coffee
and it was like 8 30 in the morning so
nobody else was there but we were like
come like stumbling out from any of our
desks we would drink their coffee we eat
their donuts we shake their hands we say
thank you and then we go back to sleep
underneath our desk
they wound up leading my first round
that helped me raised half a million
dollars so i've been there i've done the
the grind
i've done the 20-hour days
what happened is that did not last
right it got me some initial success
but i still have to wear
braces on my hand
i still
have pain most nights when i go to sleep
i
would
i burnt out way quicker than i would
have imagined uh it contributed to i and
my heart of hearts um some of my
earliest manic episodes because i have
bipolar disorder and so yes
there can be some advantages of this
grind grind grind grind
but i am here to tell you it is not
worth it
the sleep
will help you consolidate the sleep will
help your body repair
doing this is a very
physical
exercise
i know we're sitting in chairs we're
typing in code but it is a physical
exercise we talked about how chess grand
masters spend 6 000 calories in a in a
tournament right
you're burning and
a lot of calories burning those muscles
the the brain cells trying to to learn
that that's heavy it's impactful in your
body
and if you're not getting sleep the
things that you learn are not going to
stick for the long term
the things that you that you
put in all that hard work for will slip
away you will develop repetitive stress
injuries you will develop back problems
uh you will develop eyesight problems so
it is not worth it to push your body
past the point
of no return get your sleep
right there always be more time to learn
there always be more time to put in that
work but building out
right
building out
a plan for your day
that includes the time that you're going
to go to bed and the time that you're
going to wake might change your life
a lot of folks don't have bedtimes
i have a bedtime
i'm a grown-ass man and i got a bedtime
and you better bet my bottom dollar i'm
going to bed at that time
right because if i don't
if i don't stick to that schedule
the the the time slips by the youtube
video keeps playing these companies are
very good at getting you to watch just
one more video
don't let don't get got
all right don't get got
set up a schedule for your week set as a
schedule for your day give yourself a
bedtime give yourself a wake-up time and
try and stick to it and know
that you're going to slip up all the
time it's not a perfect process
right it's not a perfect process you're
going to get it wrong it's not always
going to go right
right and so make sure that you just go
into your weeks with a little bit of
preparation you go into your days a
little bit of preparation and you try
your best
right you try your best
but i'm here to say even in some of the
videos we're going to share don't think
i'm vouching for it get your sleep
please overall it's gonna be one of the
best things you can do
to increase your chances of being
successful and learning how to code
sleeping is one of the things that i
guarantee you will help you learn how to
code better
how many hours do you sleep i sleep
about seven and a half every night
i'm a little weirder i find that like if
i go over eight it doesn't work out too
well and if i go below seven it's not
great and so i'm around like the seven
and a half mark sometimes a little bit
later right
um
i found that that's that's my sweet spot
uh and i use an app that i that i i
swear by it's called sleepy time
uh sleepy
uh dot
dm there you go i love sleepy time
right uh so if you have any idea of like
when should i go to bed and when should
i wake up use sleepy time uh it's just
sleepy time but uh it's dot me right
and so let's say you want to wake up at
uh let's say you wanna wake up at i
don't know you wanna wake up at seven
right
click calculate
and it's going to tell you when you
should be falling asleep right so if you
want to wake up at seven in the in the
morning
right when we get said in the morning
you should be falling asleep by 10
o'clock
all right
you should be falling asleep by 10
o'clock you wanna wake up at seven you
should be falling asleep by 10 o'clock
if you miss that window and you're not
falling asleep by 10 o'clock do not go
to sleep
stay up until you're ready to fall
asleep at 11 30.
right because if you go to sleep in
between these windows there's a really
good chance
that you
uh will wake up in a rem cycle
and when you wake up in a rem cycle you
feel really shitty like have you ever
had like a good night of sleep like
you've slept for a while but you wake up
and you just don't feel good that's
because you probably woke up during a
rem cycle
and so this idea of using just a very
simple tool that guesstimates your rem
cycles
um
can be a real real big help
so i started with this now i have a i
volt i have a watch that will tell me
like if i'm sleeping well or not and it
like does a bunch of other weird stuff
like oxygen levels and all that cool
stuff um but sleepy time for me has been
what's um
is where i started and it really does
help and i just have the numbers
memorized now i know what time i know i
know what all my windows are
and if i don't hit my window i stay up
until the next one
you know
a brand of watch
um it's the garmin instinct solar
yeah instinct solar i weighed it until
it was on sale for
um cyber monday and then i got it
yeah sleepy time try it out try it out
and here's the thing with sleep too
sleep's different for each person
right it's different for each person
right the idea from from six to eight
there's like there's lots of room in
there some people for some people it's
like like like six to nine hours i think
it's the real window some people need a
little bit more to eight some people
need a little bit less and it's about
finding your
like right your right time
um and
exactly uh bipolar plus sleep equals
really important for me when i don't
have sleep it's dangerous let's just say
that
it's it's dangerous
oh yeah
that's my my little caveat and the
reason why i didn't want to spend so
much time on that is because
i will be sharing a lot of like
motivational videos with you and
a lot of those will advocate less sleep
and like we said last time it's not
about
how many hours it's about what you do
with the hours that you do have
some of us might only have the privilege
of an hour a day to study so
i rather have somebody that goes hard in
an hour than somebody that kind of just
like [__] around for five
right
give me somebody that that's focused
that's dialed in that's getting their
stuff done that's getting their pomodoro
in for an hour
i guarantee you they're putting more
down than somebody that's kind of like
not really focused for five
so it's not about how much time you have
is about what you do with the time that
you have
right
you owe you
if you are putting in all this work
you owe yourself
to use anki
so i gave dr eric thomas's video today
you owe you uh it's one of my favorite
videos because he he called me out he
got right into my soul he kicked it
around a little bit and i felt it
because
if i
go to best buy
and i buy a new vr headset
and i come home
and that vr has that the knobs a little
loose
right just a little loose like not not
even kind of loose just just uh just
just a little loose i'm i'm back at best
buy i'm always nice hey this didn't work
i need my money back give me my money
back it didn't work it's not what i
expected and i'm there i'm not there
like in a week i'm there i'm there the
next day
next day hey
hi thank you very much i need my money
back please it didn't work it didn't do
what i expected
right i want my money back
but i had never
asked myself
for my money back
i had to think about that for a second
whenever somebody else does me a little
wrong
right whenever somebody else just cheats
me a little bit
whenever somebody else kind of kind of
uh
kind of cuts me a little bit
i'm all up in their stuff
but i never do it for myself
i never said i i i owe myself right so
you owe you right you owe you
and when if you're putting in all this
work if you're showing up if you're one
of the thousands of people here right
you owe you to do anki
all right
and if you if you don't do it ask
yourself why get get get get your
receipt and go demand go demand your
money back right
you owe you
and so
don't do the things that we know have
been proven to help people learn right
the stuff that dr barbara oakley was
spitting you gotta take it to heart you
gotta take active recall to heart you
gotta take space repetition heart if
you're not doing it this is a waste just
stop
just stop
it's just not worth your time go do
something else go play video games come
join us on the cs go server
you're going to do all this put in the
work you owe you
all right
rant over let's get into it
what's the internet folks
what's the internet
the wire exactly
it's a wire that enables different
devices to communicate
enables our client-side requests so our
client-side devices to make requests
those requests can leave those
client-side devices go across those
wires and go to servers servers can hear
those requests there's some code running
on the servers that can help generate
responses maybe store stuff stuff into a
database maybe process a credit card or
two and then it can respond with some
stuff
okay
all right golden rule separation of
concerns we should keep all of our
content in our html we should keep all
our style in our css we should keep all
of our behavior interaction and our
javascript why why do we keep things
separate why do we keep things
[Music]
apart and why is this the golden rule
yeah for organization exactly
organization for ourselves
an organization for anybody else that we
work with right so when somebody else
joins our team
right when somebody else asks you to
join uh somebody streams your team and
they're asking you hey where do i go
make stuff wiggle you point them to
javascript
cool
alrighty
here we have the basics of html
uh in html every single bit of content
must be wrapped in a tag and the tags
almost always follow the same pattern
where they have this lovely opening tag
and then this lovely closing tag
what
what is the difference
oh sorry let's skip that here for a
second we know the difference between
like the opening and closing tag is that
the closing tag can have like these
forward slash the opening tags can have
like these attribute value pairs when
we're talking about like all of these
things we're talking about the carrots
we're talking about the the tags we're
talking about all this stuff about how
we write
html we call all of that what what up
nick how you doing
what do we call all that stuff
my bingo card is hot right now
we call that syntax right the spelling
the grammar rules the things that make
up that language we call it syntax so in
html the syntax involves opening and
closing tags there's slight differences
between those and there are a few tags
that are self closing we saw image tags
we might have saw input tags they're
self closing because they're already
content they're not wrapping around
content they are content
cool
all right time for some tags let's
review some of our our important tags
here some ones that we've seen in the
past
anybody watch this anybody go on youtube
and watch
this i'm curious if anybody on youtube
and watch the the tag competition
i saw some people on twitter talking
about i thought it was funny
yeah i know
it's funny it's cool you should watch it
i'm i would i i would be the the the
alarm the alarm would go off
the alarm would go off and i'd just like
slip
like i'd like
and it'd be over
they're like they're like jumping from
like bar to bar
uh yeah no
it would not work out well for me
alrighty uh here we have our heading
elements
our heading elements describe content
that comes after
right describes content that comes after
so think of like in a newspaper you have
a headline and that headline describes
the article that comes after so we have
h1s through h6s
h1s are supposed to be
the what
each one's supposed to be the
what big h1 energy
the most important exactly
we do not choose our h1s our twos our
threes our fours our fives our sixes
based on how they look
we choose them based on their importance
the h1 being the most important thing on
the page it's the most important thing
there should only be one of them slight
caveat with html5 sections can now each
have their own h1 right this idea though
is that we're bait we're picking them
based off of importance nice
we have some elements we saw before we
have paragraphs for larger pieces of
text spans for shorter pieces of text
pre-tags which are a what pre-tags are a
what
what are pre-tags
an abomination thank you an abomination
thank you
a great word an abomination yeah there
you go
a sin
whack
containing elements
uh we i keep seeing this question pop up
divs
have maybe sometimes that you would use
them but we use them sparingly because
we got way more
semantically correct
elements or just elements with way more
semantic meaning right so
i'm finally remembering all these let's
go max exactly
yeah uh with way more semantic meaning
which means that when you look up the
definition on the mdn there are just
times when it makes more sense to use an
article and a side then it would make
sense to use a div
so divs can still be used ideally
sparingly
or when there's not a more semantic
choice to be made
still confused the one who used an
article bobby said bobby you use an
article when it's meant to be shared
right when it's content that you could
clip out and share with somebody and
they would be able to understand all the
content so think of like a newspaper
article a blog post things that could be
shared and you could like enjoy and
understand it all on its lonesome
would you use divs for styling purposes
no because i don't ever write html
with like style in mind because that
gets too close to blurring our
separation of concerns
does that mean it has to have a button
to be shared no it doesn't have to be a
have a button to be shared now
how about an aside i get i get confused
on a slide is just when it's meant to be
shared i'm sorry and besides just extra
or ancillary content so things that if
you remove from the page the page still
goes on fine so i like to think about
asides like a really good a candidate
for an aside would be what chat what
what what is like a pretty much a really
good
candidate for an aside
ads exactly
ads are really good candidates for sides
because the ads
if you remove them hopefully the site
still still functions well
all right we looked at the bbc solution
before
uh what i want to do is i want to mark
it up again while we're here
and then what we'll do on
sunday
is we'll write out some of the html
right we're at some of the html together
during uh office hours
but for now i want to mark it up
i want to mark up this bbc site
and let's see what we get
alrighty so
if i'm looking at this bbc site
uh what would this area up here be
what would i consider that to be
yeah i'm going to go with header exactly
it's definitely my header
and then inside of that header
will be some other things right so
inside the header
we can see there's probably a nav
right
a nav
inside that nav maybe we have
some images
uh and it looks like we have like like a
list of links inside of our nav so maybe
we have a nav
ul
li
anchor tag right like we have our header
inside of our header we have our nav
inside of our nav we have our ul inside
of our ul we have our individual
lis
and then inside of our individual li we
probably have
our anchor text
right
over here we probably have a what
inside of our header somewhere
a form
exactly we have a form in there and when
you're writing out your first bits of
html do not stress about this stuff i
see so many people stress about oh
should the form be inside the nav
outside the nav should should the image
be outside the nav inside it just
doesn't matter in the beginning just get
your work on the board right just get it
on the board
right
you work on the board and you'll get
better with time
cool
alrighty
next
would this area here be
that area appear be
yeah
a nice section exactly nice section
and then inside of this section i see
kind of like
two
sections more
right like i see like two sections more
and then how about these up here what
could these be
maybe they're each different but what
what are they
yeah there's some sort of headings right
some people might have went with h1 so
many people went with h2s but they're
definitely heading elements they
describe what's happening on the page
right
definitely some sort of heading
and then if we look inside those
sections
we probably have like i would probably
consider this to be like an h1
maybe a paragraph
and then maybe like a span
right so i say h1 paragraph span
and then the funny thing is like this
image
i wouldn't actually put in the html that
would be a background image in css for
me don't worry about that for now we'll
see that when we get there too but for
me that's actually wasn't in the html
that was like styling the background of
that section right like that could have
been blue and it would have been okay to
me it wasn't content it was style right
so we you can add background images in
your css yeah we'll get there
um
then we have over here i think i
actually kind of see like four
more sections here
four more sections here
and each one of those sections has some
sort of heading
maybe like an h2 and then like a span
i see like those h2s and then spans
or it could be h3s depending on how you
think about it
some people like to make these
individual ones articles i don't
uh i i do know a lot of people do like
to make those articles
to me those aren't articles they're
links to articles
right
to me they're not articles like i would
i wouldn't print this out and share it
with you to me they're like areas to
take you to an article
right
but i do know so i would hand this to
some front-end developers i really
admire and they would make those
articles right
how about down here
another what
another what down here
another section
exactly another section
cool
and then
how about news what would that wind up
being
yeah some sort of heading element
yep another heading element cool
and then
i could see maybe like three more
sections here i think some other people
might split them up a little bit
differently um
this is where this is where it kind of
gets
this is where it gets articley for me
right this is what this this is where we
kind of this is where it kind of gets a
little articley because it has like a
heading
and then it like talks about it
right
so i could see some people going for
with three articles instead of three
sections here like i could see that like
if you did that i totally wouldn't
right wouldn't
totally wouldn't even bother me right i
could see that there i don't really see
it here this is clearly a section to me
but this starts to blur the line a
little bit right this one the ones down
here have a heading they have a photo
they have like a paragraph of of content
right
so
to me this is definitely an image
a heading element of some sort maybe a
paragraph and
a span
some folks might have used like a figure
and a figure caption i don't know if i
would go that far here um but for me
i think i would sleep well
with three sections
each section having an image
a heading
a paragraph and a span i'd sleep okay
with that
i could also probably sleep okay with
instead of it being a section
it was an article
how about a table not too old school
what is figure caption look it up on the
mdn there's there's so many other
elements that we haven't seen yet um and
so
there's just so many of them it's just
sometimes they come up but the ones that
we covered are pretty much all you'll
ever really need honestly
uh that plus what you did in shae hao
all right we got about five minutes and
then we'll take a break
where does css go
that's how we're reviewing everything
tonight reviewing all the stuffs
yeah it goes in a separate file exactly
it was in a separate file uh there are
some exceptions that we've talked about
a couple of times now you can put css in
line with your html if you're writing
html emails
and you can put some css in your head if
you're doing critical path css at amazon
but what did we see
what did we see
that made
it so that we wouldn't want to use
inline style or style in the head like
what did we see a bit like what do we
know about it now that makes the inline
in the head bad
like why does it make it like like like
hard for us to use
yeah exactly
under is under the dying stars that's a
cool username um yeah it's it's it was
specificity
it just
if i have inline style how many points
oh that's a good question how many
points of specificity does inline style
give you
beans hey thank you for the five gifted
subs i appreciate that
yeah if you use inline style
if you lose if you use inline style
that's a thousand points of specificity
that you somehow have to make up in your
css
nobody that's writing like normal css
will ever get anywhere close to a
thousand points of specificity they're
going to be banging their head against
the keyboard like why are none of my css
rules applying like everything looks
good in the css file and then they're
going to see that you put some inline
style and they're going to lose it
right and we now know that's because
that it just takes up too much
specificity
yeah too much specificity
whenever we want to link to our css in a
separate file we use our lovely link tag
right lovely link tag
that goes in the head of our html
document and the actual specific href is
the location of our style sheet we could
put it in any amount of folders that we
want but that css style is saying hey
starting at the html file where the link
is
go into a css folder and find the
style.css
now
uh here we have our entire css
breakdown uh so let's play our quick
favorite game and then i think we'll
we'll probably take our break so uh
chat
what is
this
uh-huh y'all got i thought i was gonna
start with a rule get out of here
now you can't type for 30 seconds
it's a value
how about
this
again
i went slow around the property and
everybody started typing property real
quick yeah it's a declaration
the declaration nice
thank you
blah declaration nice
how about uh how about this
about that
[Laughter]
i love seeing the declaration blocks
it's a rule it's a rule right it's a
rule
it's a rule because it includes the
selector
if it did not include the selector
it was just this what do we got there
we got a declaration block exactly and
one last one
what is that
yep we got a property all right so the
whole thing is a rule
all right whole thing's a rule rule's
broken down into a selector and a
declaration block declaration blocks are
broken down to declarations and our
declarations are broken down into
properties and
values all right
and once again why might we want to link
to our css in a separate file
separation concerns exactly organization
all right we're at the top of the hour
if you're new around here we like to
take breaks we like to be healthy we
like to make sure
that we're in this for the long haul
that we don't develop
repetitive stress injuries that we let
our legs get a good stretch so we get
some water we hydrate please hydrate
right hydration is key folks get some
water and so we're gonna put five
minutes on our timer
and after those five minutes we'll be
right back and we're gonna get our
fingers on the keyboard uh no more just
me talking we're gonna start getting
some practice in uh we're gonna practice
our css basics uh we're gonna practice
our specificity we're gonna practice our
box model i really i really excited to
practice the box i know a lot of folks
had some trouble with it
but go ahead just take five minutes get
up do what you got to do if you're able
and uh i'll see y'all in five
my
um
when am i going to start legends i'm not
sure
probably after the alumni space tomorrow
it's not a main series game so i don't
feel like i have to do the midnight you
know
all right folks come on back
all righty
all right folks come on back come on
back was the eye changing software oh
flux
flux is what i use
it changes the color of your screen to
help save your eyes a little bit
cool
oh no ogx got into some trouble let's
see
look it up after class
all right folks come on back come on
back hope you had a good break
let's uh let's jump into it
all right so
let's quickly look at some simple styles
and then we're gonna jump into
actually um typing
hey leon how do you feel about numbering
homework assignments nope you got to
read
your boss isn't going to number your
homework assignments for you right
your boss is going to give you a project
you have to get it done
so i don't i don't number my assignments
i don't even like numbering classes
uh i want you to get better at reading i
want you to get better at organizing i
want you to get better at knowing what
to do when it's due because when you get
when you get on the job
there it's not gonna be numbered for you
so i i i don't do it
you know it's a good question though
shoot your shot right
all righty some simple styles
we
have a couple different ways of doing
color
all right
uh like a couple ways of doing
color
we can do color keywords we can do
hexadecimal we can do rgba we can do
hsla um what's like what's really the
difference like what's the difference
between all of these like what could be
the difference like what what why like
we have all these different ways but
like there's something that can actually
be different across all of these we've
talked very briefly about it
performance yeah maybe speed
considerations here maybe the time it
might take to look up the color keyword
like i mean we're talking like you're
you're maximizing micro seconds here and
every count matters right but there's
maybe some speed considerations we met
here
we do know some browsers are default
hexadecimal i do like the rgb a because
it gives us the alpha channel which is a
transparency that's really nice to have
it comes in handy hsla also has that
that alpha channel as well
so yeah i kind of stick with rgba but
you can use whatever you want when i'm
kind of just
mocking around and i'm just doing quick
stuff i'll use the color keywords for
sure
all right font family uh so far we've
seen the main way that we've been
getting fonts or just from google fonts
you don't have to get all your fonts
from google there are plenty of other
places to get fonts you can download
fonts locally to your machine
so many ways to go about it i just like
the google fonts because they're easy
here you can see i have source hands pro
with the fall back so for some reason
source stands pro doesn't load uh we
would have helvetica if helvetica didn't
load then we just have a regular old
sans serif
and we also saw font weight as well
knowing that when you want to use these
font families you also have to grab the
specific weights for each of those fonts
fonts are like actual files and you have
to have the file that helps you
understand how it should be at 700 how
it should be at 300 how it should be at
400 etc
cool
and for all these things that there's
something that you want to do
in
um
if there's something that you want to do
in
css and you don't know how to do it
there's something you want to do in html
you don't know how to do it
mdn the mdn will always have the answer
the mdn has never let me down
they always have it there's a great
article on it and
it will be
uh a a real savior as you kind of go
through the basics of html and css i
just keep the mdn up i always have a tab
for the mdn up whenever i'm doing front
end stuff it's just up it's just easy to
be able to reference it and whenever i
actually kind of find something cool i
add it to my inky
all right so let's code some basic css
in the
uh materials for today which are on
discord exclamation point discord or
leon noel.com
discord if you're watching on youtube
you can join once you agree to the rules
you agree to the join 100 devs by
clicking the emojis you'll see the
follow along materials channel you can
download all the materials that we're
going to be using today there i've
already downloaded them i've already
opened i've already unzipped the folder
i've already opened the entire
the entire folder
uh in my vs code so i already have it
all open
the reason why i like to open the entire
folder is because then i get all of my
lovely folders already there to go and
we are going to up we're going to work
through the the some basic css
we're going to do this basic css 2.
all right
so here you go we have some some things
we have to do here css wise
um it says make the anchor tags gold 20
pixels and have a purple background uh
some have height side does more and so
what i want you to do is to work through
the basic css 2
make sure you follow all the things it's
asking you to do in the css and make
sure you can make these
rules come to life we're going to put
four minutes on the clock
go as fast as you can and then we'll go
over it all
together done
uh our classes and ids as long as it
doesn't say classes and ids are not
allowed sure but you don't need them for
this one at all
switching rapidly they could have been
using um
react or they had been using a cms that
output stuff using divs
everything's always in the same spot
it's always on uh discord the following
materials channel
make sure you're using the files from
from today
right you're going to find a different
way to unzip maybe through google docs
too much here you see so we'll get some
on the board for you
basic css2
[Laughter]
so did you ever get tired of explaining
where to find these things over and over
again no no i think we always have a lot
of folks that join us new each class and
so
y'all should be listening to me right
now anyway as you're working so i don't
mind
patience is a virtue
how do i unzip on a mac you just double
click
we are doing the basic css2
would you recommend learning typescript
over javascript no learn javascript
first and then
um see the beauty of what typescript
provides for you
i like people to like learn the base and
then understand
what benefits you get when you use other
things
gotta feel a little pain to feel the
blessing you know
be covering typescript nah just because
it's just not necessary to get a job
i think it's a lot of fun i use it
professionally sometimes but
it's just not it's just extra work to
get a job
that's what we care about
what is the color app for mac called
it's called digital color meter
finally finish one on pace hey good job
dominic should be paying for this free
advertisement
all right folks come on back come on
back let's do this together
no matter how far you got let's just
take a look at it together
all right
please make the anchor tags gold
20 pixels and have a purple background
all right anchor tags
gold so we'll do color
gold beautiful
uh font size of 20 pixels
cool and have a background that is
purple
beautiful
all right please make sure the anchor
tags are gold 20 pixels have a
background that's purple uh is my css
saved
nope it's not you can see the you can
see the i'm just pointing at my screen i
always have to fight the urge to be like
no look and like and like point at the
screen like no look right there you can
see it right uh
you can see that the dot
is not
it's it's still full so that's how you
know i haven't saved beautiful
all right
let's go ahead and open this in the
browser
all right we can see our anchor tags
gold purple lovely stuffs going on over
there
so the next one
please make the section
have a height of 200 pixels was there
more than one section no there's only
one section so we don't need to worry
about classes or ids or anything
right
all righty
let's go ahead and do
section
and let's go ahead and give it a height
of 200 pixels
let's go ahead and give it a 10 pixel
thick blue border so border
10 pixels solid
blue
lovely
and a light orange background
what did you all do for a light orange
background
salmon
i like that there you go
is salmon light i guess it's light
orange right
light coral oh
like coral works
seen a lot of rgb values i'm trying to
get got right now we're gonna go at
salmon
all right let's see
how come i can't see the the salmon
color or the thick blue border
how come i can't see it let me make it
bigger why can't i see it
it's saved gotta refresh there we go
refresh we can see it nice
cool
please make the aside have a height of
300 pixels
let's go ahead and do height 300 pixels
beautiful
thin red border
uh thin let's just do like two pixels
solid red that'll be thin enough
and a teal background
background
teal nice
let's just do the last one while we're
here
please make the aside paragraph so the
paragraph that's inside the aside so
we'll do a side paragraph that's the
selector we're saying give me the
paragraph
that is inside of the aside that space
there one of our relationship selectors
let's go ahead and give it a color of
white
let's go ahead and give it a font size
of 18 pixels and let's give it a red
underline oh
how'd y'all do red underlines
oh some people did text decoration
so like text
decoration
underline
red that works right let's go back
uh-huh
you have to worry about the the size of
it
um some other things that you might want
to try and do if you like i like the
underlying red it's cool it works
there's nothing extra you have to do
right
but i also like
i also like
um
border
bottom
we can do like two pixels solid
red
right if we do border bottom and we go
back
we're gonna have to do some other stuff
like handling the width but the cool
thing about using border bottom is now
we can use padding to push it farther
away so maybe you want maybe you don't
want the border as close
right
maybe we don't want the border as close
maybe you want a little bit further away
we could put padding in between to like
give us some room between the border so
one you have control the other you don't
so pretty cool
yeah either border bottom works or the
text decoration underline would work
either as good here all right i think
you all did pretty good i was watching
chat go by folks were answering them i
think you all did a good job on this one
good stuff
as always
when we're reviewing it together i'm
gonna go fast don't feel like you have
to like copy along frantically i always
share my solution files on discord after
class so
let's move on
alrighty
let's talk about some relationships
i always giggle let's talk about some
relationships
we have here
what type of relationship what type of
relationship is this
direct exactly
the direct child
it's saying give me a child
that exists directly
inside of another element so we need a
paragraph that exists
directly inside of a section that's an
example here you have a paragraph that
is immediately inside of a section
there's no other gaps jumps or steps to
paragraph immediately inside of the
section nice
cool
how about here here we have a paragraph
right a paragraph that is immediately
inside of an article that's immediately
inside of a section
uh so would this work
would that work
chat if i put the the little carrot
there
that work
no
because this paragraph is not the direct
child of a section it's a child of the
section let's not get that wrong it is a
child but it's not a direct child so we
don't use the carrot here we just have
the p
with the space whenever you see that
space it says find me something inside
of something so find me a paragraph that
exists inside of a section i don't care
how deep it is when it's a space it
doesn't matter how deep it is
nice
then we also have our siblings uh right
here we're saying find me a s a
paragraph whose immediate sibling before
was another paragraph and so the only
one that would actually get read here
would be this youtube
because if we look at twitch
there's nothing above it there's no
other paragraph above it for it to be a
sibling to
right
there are other sibling selectors too by
the way but this one we're using right
now
alrighty let's code some relationships
folks let's code some relationships so
i'm going back
to my folder here uh inside the same
folder that you just used we have this
relationship css2
index.html
css
inside the css there are some things
that it wants you to do
memphis thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
there's some stuff that it wants you to
do
no classes no ids please no classes no
ids
hey cobalt glad you're finally able to
join us live all right no classes no ids
uh we got four things for you to do here
let's bring the the clock back
and uh let's put another four minutes on
here you got it go for it
y'all did this before class
no classes no ids just relationships my
favorite simple plan album
thank you show no worries though
always going to be mistakes
your [__] though
line 35 you said
oh it didn't close could i
um
we're doing the
relationship css to
these four things
would you recommend free code camp for
the odin project yeah by themselves i
think they're great i wouldn't do both
at the same time like i wouldn't do 100
devs and something else at the same time
just so you don't burn out
engagement alert anchor tag not closed
done so nice
like solving puzzles yes that's why i
love the code for me you give me a a a
good coffee and a good puzzle i'm happy
i'll sit there all damn day on a puzzle
and good coffee but for me coding is
like solving really cool puzzles i love
it
slacked on anki with this and it shows a
you owe you
i'm actually doing this proud of myself
you should be proud there's no you know
how people can there's not many people
in this world that can do this stuff
compare it to everyone that exists
you know
one isn't better than the other dolph
randolph they do they do things
differently
it's about finding what works for you
right everyone's gonna learn differently
um from different programs and so
that's why i always say like don't don't
don't let me be the arbiter of your
success this might not be the program
that works best for you right
so check out other stuff make your
decision uh where it gets where it gets
a little hard is when people want to
dump money into a program and then
figure it out that's where you get into
trouble
oh yeah between all the free stuff you
find what works for you
is the ketchup crew on discord yeah you
just gotta make sure that you have
access to make sure you don't have like
a great username you can see all the
channels
uh cinder said this has been the most
helpful in the soft self-taught because
of the accountability and discipline
yeah that's the beauty of right that's
what i love about 100 it's not just me
it's not just y'all it's a whole
community of folks that can help and
support and
you got real deadlines
you gotta show up or else you miss class
right
uh i think that helps a lot of folks
that's why i like doing it live
all right folks come on back come on
back let's go through these together
alrighty don't worry i see some people
that were just just almost ready to
finish the last one it's all right you
good you're good let's get in here
way better than the three times i tried
the other one yeah i feel you
all right please make only just kidding
yellow let's take a look at just kidding
all right so here is
just kidding it is an h2
we do have other h2s on the page so how
can we target just kidding
what's what's unique about just kidding
that makes it different than the other
h2s on the page
yeah it's inside of a section
so we can do section
h2
and say color
yellow cool let's open this in the
browser and make sure that everything's
working well
all right
all right cool
and then let's move on to the next one
here
please make only twitter red and 20
pixels
let's go ahead and take a look at
twitter
[Music]
all right here's twitter it's inside of
an anchor tag
we have anchor tags other places we do
have other anchor tags so how can we
target just the twitter anchor tag
yeah
side a would work here right
side a
right let's look was there any other
this is a paragraph so we can't do like
paragraph a because that there's there's
one right here but any anchor tag that's
inside of a side would work
so a side a
right now the cool thing is you can skip
i see a lot of people saying like aside
pa like that does work it does get more
specific but a side a should work too
let's try it
blur red
and font size 20 pixels
cool we can see that twitter went red
if you want to be more specific you
could throw in the p2
let's make really hot purple
and
like wild hot larger and blue
so really hot purple and then like wild
hot it's gonna be a different color
let's go ahead and look at it
really hot
is an h2
and like wild hot is also another h2
so maybe we could use the cascade to our
benefit here
right we could do article h2 to target
really hot
and then we could do article h2
plus h2 the target like wild hot
differently oh let's try that
article h2
and let's make that color
uh purple
beautiful
and then let's do
article and we'll do h2
plus h2 selecting that sibling
and we'll make it larger so maybe let's
do like font size i don't know like 30
pixels
and then let's go ahead and do
color blue
cool
let's see if this works so if it works
we should see purple and blue
all right really hot is purple
and like wild hot is blue
now i mentioned the cascade is helping
us here what do i mean by that chat when
i say the cascade is helping us
what do i mean by that
yeah
it overrides right
we start off
with all of our article h2s being purple
and then we use the cascade to our
benefit like as we go down the page if
something has more
if something has equal or more
specificity enables us to override the
thing that came above so what we're
saying here is hey
if there is an if there's an h2 that has
a sibling h2 that's inside of an article
make that one blue and
bigger
right and so all the h2s were purple
and now this specific h2 down here is
gonna be blue
right gonna be blue
couldn't you do h2 plus h2
were there any other h2s plus h2s i
don't see any so yeah maybe h2 plus h2
could have worked too by itself
um
because it would have been the same
amount of specificity
i kind of like having the anchor of the
article so i kind of know where to go
right
yeah it would have worked with just the
h2 plus h2 as well
last one
make only bob and pizza green
only bob and pizza green is there is
there if there are three could you do h2
plus h2 plus h2 yeah you can do all the
siblings
as far as you want you can go as many
siblings deep as you would like
all right bob and pizza
are both articles inside of an li and
how do we grab just bob and pizza but
not sunshine and rainbows
oh the chat's doing it all right we
could use the fact
that the uls
are
siblings so that could be the place
where we start right we start with ul
plus ul and then we can just say like a
right so let's try that
ul
plus ul and then a
and let's try it color
green
all right let's do it
all right bob and pizza are just green
right
because
we have the ul plus ul right that's
gonna say you know what ignore this
first ul just grab the second one and
then grab all the anchor tags that are
inside of it
all right
um a lot of folks are saying like why
don't you use the the carrots like why
don't we get like
more specific here well that sorry it
doesn't add specificity why don't we why
don't we make them direct well because i
don't have to
and so i'm lazy and if i don't have to
i won't do it uh but also it it it
really does make it more strict right
and so it's up to you do you want to be
more strict or do you want to be less
strict
right it's kind of a preference and it
actually might be set by the team that
you join your team might always prefer
like strict
um direct
direct childs right
and um you'd have to figure that out if
you wanted to do like ul
a you'd also then have to do like
the li right you'd have to if you wanted
to use
the the more strict you you would have
had to like add more work here right in
this case you would have had to add more
specificity and so i don't ever use the
direct
carrots or the direct children unless
there is a situation where i need it
yeah otherwise i just don't
don't got a way to like do more work
right
all right looks good
working on that one as always i share
the solutions after class
uh there was an error in the html
there was an error that i fixed
down here twitter was an anchor tag that
opened
but it closed with a paragraph
i had to uh fix the error to close with
the closing anchor tag
uh-huh
there you go
we got got together
we got got together i i got myself i
went to get what i got got
it was a test i was testing y'all
alrighty
let's talk about ids we got engaged
engagement
we're definitely oh that's that's
definitely a moat it's a engagement
isn't emote it's definitely coming i got
to talk to the to the designer that
helped with the other ones but yeah
we're definitely doing an engagement
emote
all right let's talk about ids and
classes for a little bit here
uh we have ids which are unique
identifiers
right
it's unique identifiers uh it's a way of
targeting one thing and only one thing
on the page
all right
hopeless said can we do more practice
yes we can do more practice i got you
got more practice tonight uh ids are
unique identifiers right it was us to
target one element and only one element
once you give an element an id that id
cannot be reused on any element it's how
we talk to just that element and only
that element right
cool
now
here we have hello youtube with the id
of zebra
right the idea of zebra
this
idea of zebra cannot be used anywhere
else
only that paragraph and if i want to
target just that paragraph i can use the
idea zebra to get there
okay
classes are a little different classes
we can give to multiple elements
right we can give them multiple elements
right and those elements can be reused
multiple times
and so here you can see this paragraph
has an id but it also has the class of
bob
you can see that this paragraph also has
a class of bob so when i do
my dot bob as my article sorry sorry as
my selector
i am targeting both of these elements at
the same time
and in fact our elements can have as
many classes as you want to give them
and we can use all those classes to
target elements so
you can only have one id per element
then the id game cannot be re reused and
then you can give as many classes to
your elements as you would like
each class is separated by a space
cool
all right chat
how many points of specificity
does this rule have
all right let's count it
we have
one class
and one id so one id
one class and zero tags
so 110 points of specificity here and we
can see it we can see all right
here's the section that had the id of
pizza
and then inside of it is a paragraph
that had the class of
jumanji original movie aka the only one
that exists
anyway
next one
how many points of specificity chat
how many points we got here
for this rule
all right let's count it out we got how
many
how many ids one
how many classes we got one
two so two classes
and we have one tag
so 121 points of specificity because
there is one id
two classes and a tag and we can see
that right we can see that there's
something that has the idea diet coke
space so we're going to look inside
inside we can see that there is indeed a
paragraph that has the class of bob
and the class of domino's pizza
and it is a paragraph that's why there's
no spaces
between domino's pizza bob and the
paragraph
is this counting used in real life i use
it all the time it's how i know it's how
i know if the content is gonna be
overwritten in the cascade
dab said somebody at github pushed a bit
of bad code and they're landing pages
down hey it happens right if the if the
best developers in the world are getting
got we can't expect not to get got
ourselves right i feel like everyone was
going everyone's going down recently
right like discord went down github's
going down this is this is this is not a
good sign folks everyone's getting got
already
this is our last one here
how many points of specificity does this
rule have folks how many points of
specificity does this rule have
okay okay i see you
all right we had
one
two ids
zero classes
zero tags but
we also had the bang important so that
gives us
one in the other category so we have
points of specificity
1200 points of specificity here boom
i got
alrighty
let's get some specificity practice in
why don't we and so let's go back to vs
code here
i'm going to close the ones that we are
working on
and we have another set of practice here
folks practice on practice on practice
on practice let's go
so we have specificity practice sorry
yep specificity practice here
there you go specificity practice is the
one we're looking at
uh and you got four things to do here
please i'm gonna put five minutes on the
clock for this one just give folks a
little bit more time
um just to have a little bit more fun
with the highest level specificity
questions so five minutes on the clock
here
then we'll go over it together and then
we'll probably take a break
[Laughter]
in different ghosts added two minutes to
the timer
so we gotta add it's now seven not seven
hundred but seven minutes
[Laughter]
uh there you go seven minutes folks
thank you indifferent
so you can use uh channel points to
increase a timer and so in different
ghosts spent the channel points to
increase the timer so you had a little
bit more time to work on these
the people's champion exactly
i love labs
uh isn't different from the last cohort
well they were here last car but they're
one of our
they're the only person in the history
of a hundred devs to go
through all ranks on on discord uh
meaning go from helper to mentor to
moderator
uh
an amazing contributor to our community
has helped single-handedly hundreds of
folks
uh get to where they need to go
i admire leon's ability to say
specificity so many times i mess it up
all the time all the time
leon what do you think about using js
for data structures and algorithms yeah
why not
did you comment the points of
specificity next to rules to keep track
nah
oh no blah not the pixels
that was actually from this la this
class last time it's funny you bring
that up this is this is the class that
it happened yeah because of the box
model
thank you
yeah that clip is still up it's one of
my favorites
the ufa receiver so why isaac gengar
yeah
called it
so behind my head hurts yeah i agree
with everyone that's jumping in here get
on discord we'll help you out different
said you got this exposure theory and
space repetition exactly
we're gonna see all this stuff again
right
gonna get lots of practice we're gonna
do it all of our space repetition in
is it worth learning topics like npm
websockets and webpack from scratch if
you like learning about them sure why
not if you're just trying to get a job
no
you know what lance crave
you ever play pokken no i did for a
little while then kind of just stopped
come on in folks
memphis thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
ashley thank you for the good sub
i'm trying to read the pasta a
how do you wrap vs code text there's a
soft toggle you can turn on
if it's not already on for you by
default
recovering back end in the boot camp of
course
i need to send you some donna's pizza
where do i send it you don't
uh random acts of pizza on on on
reddit's great though
when are we starting js not for a while
we gotta get through responsiveness
first
what's the gift at something it's when
folks in the community give other folks
that are here a sub
um yeah
it's actually the only thing that has
sound
like regular subbing um bits all that
doesn't make sounds but gift things
do
donald's are burger king definitely
burger king because they have the
impossible whopper
mcdonald's is getting ready to have the
mick plant but i don't i don't trust
mcdonald's
family guy or bob's burgers oh that's
such a hard one
i love bob's burgers but i think family
guy just has like
my old older skull humor nailed down
how do you feel about machine learning i
think it's dope
i can't wait
i want all the i want all the ai to help
me write my code
a lot of people coming in done that's
great
how many countries have you been to in
africa
i've been to quite a few
i did some research for a while so
yeah it's actually a surprisingly high
number
all right folks about 50 seconds left
got this dig deep
you can do it
i did do biology
mainly biological anthropology though
you make it to ireland on your travels
yep
yeah
been there quite a few times
mainly because like
hopping planes but yeah
i started off with my uh mcb and then
transitioned
after like
years in
at yeah we call it mcdb though
for that developmental in there
what's the most beautiful country you
ever visited i'm not sure that's a hard
one
i think i said this last time i'm a
sucker for italy i love it i like
history and like you just you're just
like in it which is so cool all right
folks come on back come on back
hope you had a good run hope you enjoyed
the extra two minutes
uh from indifferent
all right let's go over these together
boom all right please make
this an ad blue
but make sure it's specific enough that
you can add other h3 somewhere else in
the document
all right so let's look at this is an ad
all right so this is an h3
and
uh we want to make it specific enough
that we could add like h3s elsewhere and
so the cool thing is that this h3 is
inside of an aside
so let's go ahead and just grab the
class that's on this aside
um
yeah
let's grab the class and let's try that
oh although we do have this id up here
too
let's get real specific with it then
let's just while out here
not because it's necessarily good code
but just to have some fun with it all
right so we know that it's inside of a
section that has that id uh rugrats
while thornberries is indeed the best
crossover of all time
right so that's super specific
uh and then inside of that we know that
we're going to grab
an aside
that has this class of extra extra read
all about it
cool and then we know there's an h3 in
it
we do that
and we do like h3 right
now we could
get more specific than this right maybe
we could throw the section there we
could throw the aside in there right um
we could also give that h3
its own
like its own id and then that would make
sure that we were specific that nothing
else right but like i feel i feel this
is a a good testament here
and make it blue
cool
and let's go ahead and
let's actually open this in the browser
cool and we can see this is an ad you're
beautiful there you go
just put back import and i didn't call
it a day
the screen not being focused is you have
to change the quality settings on your
end yeah make sure you change the
quality settings and give it a refresh
sometimes if it gets too blurry yeah
all right so that was good
i feel like there's no other h3s they're
going to be built like unless you put
like another h3 inside of this inside of
this section i think we're good maybe we
could even just to make sure that
there's like not other things that are
that are going to be there we can use
the like the direct
right just to be extra careful
yeah just be extra careful
all right please make i like turtles red
i like turtles that's that stuff that's
like
like perfect og vine
right i like turtles
they have to be like an adult now right
like
i wonder what i wonder what they they
grew up to be
maybe they're a herpetologist
right maybe what wouldn't that be a
story
their hepatologist now you know
studying is that what those people study
turtles right or like lizards and stuff
all right
i like turtles is down here i'm sorry i
forgot about this being in here um i'm
removing all that imagery we won't be
using that going forward but i forgot
about this id
uh we have the section id here and then
we're going to change this here we're
going to change
changed it
there we go
there we go uh so i changed it and we
have i like turtles inside of it so
let's go ahead and use that
uh let me save here and i'm going to go
to id here i'm going to say changed it
and
h2
boom and we make it red
color
cool let's save it let's see what we got
all right a little bit bigger
cool red
all righty
uh please select hello world with the
highest level specificity possible oh
boy
i'm gonna do this again are we
gonna do this again are we
please select hello world
with the highest level specificity
possible
what you all get how'd you do it
all right let's take a look where hello
world is let's see
all right
hello world is in this h2
so we definitely want to use the h2
with the section that has that id so
let's go ahead and copy it
and let's go ahead and do
uh section
with that
id space h2
cool so that's the start right the h2
that's inside of this section
it's just inside of the section this
section is the sibling of the header
with the class top
so
um header
the class top
sibling
beautiful
and then the header top
that is inside the body which is inside
the html so we'll do
html we'll do body
and then we'll go ahead and give it a
color
let's just say gold
and we'll do bang important
i don't know where that o came from
and then we'll close it off
cool let's make sure it's gold
all right so hello world is gold
can anybody add something that made it
more specific
you can do more
what more can we do
direct relationships won't make it more
specific
do head plus body
oh boy
um
there you go right
still gold
anything else folks found that they
could do
cool
i like it
i think we're good here
uh so we had an h2 that was a child of a
section that had this rugrats wild
thornberry best crossover all time it
was a sibling to the header that had the
class at top that was a child of the
body the body was a sibling of the head
and the head was a child of the html
boom
what are you sipping today leon t
the normal tazos vanilla carm uh caramel
chai
all right folks well done we had one
more down here
i'm going to save this one for y'all i
want you all to try it on your own uh
get get as specific as you can
and uh maybe we'll do it together on on
uh on office hours but i'll leave this
one for you just in the sake of time
because we're a little bit over
where we're over time so let's go ahead
if you're new around these parts we like
to be
um we like to be we like to take our our
breaks the top of the hour uh we're here
for a a long time right
not a short time i don't know why
and we're gonna go and put five minutes
on the timer here please if you're able
get up hydrate
grab some water
alright
grab some water stretch if you're able
let your eyes focus on something that's
not the screen and we'll be back here
for you in five minutes folks
ian five
so
ah somebody started using studio classes
that's pretty cool
i seen dragon ball super of course
alien thank you for teaching do you
think ai will make a replacement for
many programming jobs nope
programming is like turning business
ideas into reality ai is going to help
us do that
um you just won't have to look up as
much stuff it'll it'll be helpful right
it'll be really helpful and it's going
to help build more products faster which
means more engineers which means even
more work so i'm ready for the ai i
think it's going to make our systems a
lot easier to build and this is going to
be like another tool that we use to help
us
join us on discord victory happy to have
you
favorite pasta shape
uh i'm i'm a like a i'm like a thin
spaghetti type person yeah
thoughts in the metaverse gonna happen
yeah
python or javascript javascript all day
ether soul
oh
the hard one
i love the ecosystem way more i just
don't like gas so still can be fun too
well i don't i like the mechanism of gas
i don't like having the pay gas
what kind of chair do you have i have a
herman miller embody
come on back folks come on back
hope you had a good break
are you veg
i'm vegan yeah
no i don't think i'm a vegetable though
alright folks come on back hope you had
a good break
leon's got the monies no i did not pay
for it i mean let me i've told i said
i'll keep saying this
i have a
amazing setup
like the the the the when i was little
the thing i wanted most growing up was a
laptop didn't get one
i always wanted a computer did get one
until much later right like like i
always wanted computer i have the setup
of my dreams
right now
a beast of a laptop a beast of a pc
triple monitors dual camera gold xr two
steam decks ipad the draw like i got a
beast of a setup i did not pay for a
dime of it
i did not pay for a dime of it
when i negotiate my salary
when i negotiate my contracts
i often need more gear or things to do
those jobs
or to do those jobs as well
um
and so i i haven't paid for any of it
including my chair
um so i i have this one
that i did not pay for and actually i
got this herman miller embody
for
dollars
it is a sixteen hundred dollar chair
that i got for three hundred dollars
um including my keyboard exactly i got a
300 plus keyboard i got i got one for
free and another one that i got for free
again i guess because i didn't pay for
it
um
the the chair i knew i wanted i knew i
wanted to embody
uh for a very long time and i checked
craigslist every single day
all the marketplace apps every single
day and eventually i saw one
that somebody listed for eight hundred
dollars
and as soon as it went up i had my
alerts i immediately resp sent to them
hey
i saw you it posted the embody 500 cash
i'll pick it up in an hour like
literally in an hour i'll be there with
cash and they were like oh like that's
great like
uh i can do the 500
and um can you just come pick it up
tomorrow i was like yeah hell yeah i'll
come like do you want me to come i'll
literally i'm in my car the guy will
come i will get it from you right now
they're like no just come tomorrow and
then so tomorrow comes and they message
me saying hey
i tried to clean it
it it it didn't work well there's a
stain on the seat are you okay with the
stain
and i was like and i was i was about to
say like hell yeah like i'm still coming
i'll get it cleaned i don't care and
they're like we'll knock i'll knock 200
off of it so that you can get it cleaned
so i showed up
and
i bought the chair
for 300 cash
the stain was like it looked like
somebody dropped a little bit of water
on it
like it looked like somebody dropped a
little water on it and
she the woman there told me she's like
look
i know it's an expensive chair
uh my boyfriend got it for me we're no
longer together i just don't want it
anymore i was like what and she was like
yeah i just don't want it anymore so 300
and i paid the cash and i smiled my
whole way home uh with my 1600 chair
that i got for 300.
and then that that 300 i didn't pay for
that came out of my pd funds anyway
alrighty
let's get into the box model story
time's over
so talk a little bit about the box model
last class let's make sure we review it
and then we're going to get some
practice with it so the box model is
that every single thing in web
development is a box i don't care if
it's an image a piece of text a section
everything is a box it can have height
and width
it can have padding and it can have
border
right and it can have border and then we
have something called margin not
technically box model but the margin can
push the box model around so
let's get some more practice in uh let's
not get got again tonight
that was pretty quick if you saw that's
good on you
um
let's go ahead and practice uh let's say
we're gonna build a section again
all right we're gonna build a section
again
and let's go ahead and say a section
cool
and let's give it a height of fixed uh
of 50 pixels
and
a width
of 50 pixels
and then
we could do
yeah let's start there height 50 pixels
all right 150 pixels
with the 50 pixels
and we kind of feel comfortable we know
that that's 50 pixels wide you know it's
just i look over it's just all nuns
too many of you all got a good kind of
moats these days too many you got to
vote too many people too many people use
the jeff bezos's money uh they they
realize that they have amazon prime they
can get a free sub uh and uh too many
people got gifted subs we got too many
nuns in the in in this chat nowadays
i'm done i'm here john i look up it's
just a wall of nuns
god dang it
spell it out spell it out spill it out
[Laughter]
yes
so
i knew that
dab thank you for the gift it subs
i knew
that you could you could take the clip
or rewind the clip and so somebody knew
that they could do the clip
right
and then go back to it i should have
just enough that you could go to the
clip and then they had to type it all
out
they had to type it all out and they
would be able to type it all out with
the clip and uh get to get the link
yes
done well done well done we got gat
i it was a risk right we knew it was a
risk right we do we do there's a risk
right we do we do
that oh another uh get this off hey
wait it's kind of like honestly who did
the gift that subs
dab thank you for the five gift of subs
and
i see you just did the gifted ones there
it'll come through in a second but thank
you for the gifted subs
all right
let's do it again
it didn't come through i'm not sure who
did get this i appreciate you before
they get this up i'm sorry i just it
didn't come through on my um
my log here so i appreciate you
there we go
it was dab ah dab thank you for the um
gifted subs all right
let's do it again
so section
and we have height
of 50 pixels
and width
and that'll give us a nice
square
all right
so now let's go ahead and
let's go ahead and
let's add a border
let's do a little he got worse
uh let's do a border
i'm sorry
don't play me blame the nuts
let's add a border
actually let's change the color um
so we have our our nice box
and let's add a border let's make our
border red
and so we'll do border
and let's go ahead and do five let's do
10 pixels
uh solid
red
cool
there we go
10 pixels solid red
alrighty
and that would go ahead and give us a 10
pixel border
going around the whole thing
cool
and how how wide
is this element right now
how wide is this element
70 pixels wide right because we have 10
pixels on the left
10 pixels on the right
and 50 pixels in the middle
nice
all right
uh let's go ahead and give some padding
let's go and do padding
bottom
adding bottom
and
let's give it uh 30 pixels
and what will happen is we'll need to
kind of erase the border for a second
here
yep
and padding
padding increases
the distance between the element and its
border so if we give 30 pixels of
padding here
we get 30 pixels of padding here
all right and that's all of our padding
here
all right all of our padding here
and then we have to make sure that the
border goes back to where it was
there we go
how tall is this element
all right
we got
10 pixels on the top
50 pixels so we're at 60
plus
30 so we're at 90 plus another 10 we're
at 100 so 100 pixels tall how wide are
we right now how wide is the element
oh why is the element it's still
right still 70 pixels wide
if i had margin
right if i had margin
and i added
a hundred pixels of margin to the top
how tall is the element
i had 100 pixels of margin to the top
oh
yeah it's still the same right
margin pushes the box around it doesn't
increase the size of the element right
it's a hundred pixels tall still it's
just pushed down margins the bully it
pushed it down right if you hadn't
merged to the left it'll push it over
still still the same amount of height
just margin would push it down
cool well done everybody
all right let's go ahead and jump back
to the slides
and we're going to get some box model
practice and we drew it and now let's
actually code out some elements that can
that we're going to kind of play with
the box model a little bit here so let's
go ahead and open up that set of code
told you folks lots of hands-on keyboard
time tonight right feeling good right
feels good
all right
so we got this box model practice
index.html
and inside the css
you got some some things to do here so
let's go ahead and put five minutes on
the clock here
five minutes on the clock
and go ahead and go for it in five
minutes this is the box model practice
actually let's do four minutes
and get as fast as you can in those four
minutes
okay
i know you probably won't finish it in
the four but that's okay take four try
and get as far as you can
speedrun exactly
uh
dawg pixels
what's the px like 30 pixels font size
yeah
miles i said wild how chat slows down
during these exactly you're all doing
stuff
they said you're getting to mobas nah
i've stayed away i know that that's the
end of my that's like it's over it's a
wrap
like i played wow for a month then i was
done like never again
i didn't eat i didn't sleep i didn't go
to class
just knew i couldn't couldn't live life
like that
i'm from south philly
favorite nba team sixers of course
i would definitely wear lehan's drawing
on a t-shirt that was the merch last
cohort the last cohort had the box model
exactly our box model was on there
do you stay john an unhealthy amount
not as much as i did when i lived there
but it still comes out like when i just
when i just don't know what to call
something it does slip out
bobby lynn added two minutes to the
timer all right when we when we hit two
minutes i'll make it four
oh there you go four minute timer
bobby lynn added the two minutes to the
timer well done well done thank you
bobby lynn for the extension
slay vance hey thank you for the six
months i appreciate that
are we getting to scss at all nah
something you could pick up on your own
if you want
um but it's just not something we need
to get a job right so if it's not
something that's gonna like materially
help us get a job i don't teach it any
seagull of course
up three all the time
please can we finish at 9 30. now i
really do try to stick to the three the
three hours i know that it's hard to do
it sometimes but i really try to know
people got life and so i try to be
consistent with the time
how much data structures and algorithms
we go over we'll go over a lot
we'll be doing daily data structures and
algorithms practice for like a month
plus
what company treats their employees the
best
um
i know a lot of like local boston
companies that treat their employees
really well i don't know of like like
national companies that i could think
off the dome
yeah exactly and also an indifference
and it also depends on what you're
looking for
like paying some people the most is like
you could you could throw them in a dark
corner as long as you're paying them
more right
people look for different things
how's your experience with tech stars i
loved it that's one of the best things
i've ever done
what do you think of the seattle hub i i
think it's dope like i like i mean like
like of seattle i went to seattle over
the holidays and i loved it
all companies make your take take leak
codes are similar nah a lot of companies
don't even give you technical interviews
motherboard hey thank you for the 10
gift it subs that's wild thank you so
much
10 good cells
you see they're making a new fresh
prince yeah i have i i think it actually
looks pretty cool it's not like funny
they're definitely going more like
drama-y
i i kind of i really do love the like
the campiness of the original it's one
that's what made it one of my favorite
shows
but the trailer looked cool just more
more modern drummy
a lot of folks coming in done
we learn enough to talk about big o
notation of course yeah
you'll be able to evaluate all of your
interview problems in big o
done looks weird
do we need to know advanced math no
not at all you don't even need like
regular math
other than like calculating percentages
maybe where did you learn to write
hieroglyphics from the nuns
like banksy learn css
all right folks five seconds left get in
here
favorite vegan fast food taco bell by
far don't make like you can make
anything um yeah right and if you don't
even need to calculate percentages
anymore there's calc
um yeah no the taco bell will make
anything vegan you just got to say like
fresco style like you you can order
anything like
you remove the meat and say fresco style
and it's vegan it's beautiful
talk about sponsors please
all right
have you ever tried in and out
their friend tries and they were
horrible
i don't get it
i guess maybe it's like price but
the lines in and out are just
like they're just wild
absolutely wild
like the lines are just like around the
block every single time
[Laughter]
i just don't get it
i know i just offended a lot of people
but i i just i just don't get it
all right folks let's get into this
this is this is this is the most i've
ever seen chat pop off when i start
talking about
fast food places
all right please make the h1 30 pixels
with a little padding on the left and a
thin red border let's select the h1 here
uh we're gonna make it 30 a font size of
30 pixels 30 pixels
a little padding on the left so padding
left
uh 30 pixels
and a thin red border so let's do border
um
we're going to do border let's go ahead
and do like three pixels solid
red
and let's save this
and let's open this html in the browser
all right so we can
see
that this h1 had a bigger font size
we can see that there's a little bit of
padding on the left and we can see that
it has that thin red border right now
what i like to do is i use my inspect
tools
and so the reason why i asked you to use
chrome for the class is just that the
tools are slightly better in chrome and
there's slightly a few things that like
firefox is just a little bit harder to
get to
and so i i tell people to use chrome
just to get comfortable with these tools
i find even when i'm like developing and
i use firefox i have to jump back to
chrome every once in a while so i just
tell people to use chrome out the gate
even if you use firefox in like your day
to day just for these tools so
if you right click on this text
and you click inspect
that's going to bring up the inspect
tool
okay it's going to bring up the inspect
and
inside the the
inspect tool
there is
this lovely like you're gonna see all
these different panels
but i love this panel right here
um the styles panel because as you
scroll let me bring it up a little bit
as you scroll
you can see all of the computed css like
the css that is actually
sticking like the the css that's
actually running so like i could click
on the h2 and it would show me all the
style in the h2 but i click on the h1
here in the elements and it's going to
show me the exact css that's coming
through
on that element and then there's one
other really cool thing that is if you
scroll down far enough
there's this box that shows up
and the box actually shows you
all of the
like the actual sizing so it'll show you
the size of the element like the height
and the width it'll show you the padding
it'll show you the border and it'll show
you the margin and so if you look you
can see all right here is the the height
and width of the element
you can see that we have the 30
the 30 pixels of padding
you can see the three pixels of border
on each side and you can actually set
there's some margin that's at play too
right
so
if we hover over this you can actually
see all right here's the element
and then when i hover over padding look
look look up here look at where the
element is
look up here ready
three two one padding
all right see how the green shows up so
that can show me that oh there there's
actually padding there
if i do the border it'll actually
highlight the border so even if the
border is like a weird color or it's not
on all sides you can see where it would
be and then you can actually see the
margin now did we give it any margin
did we give it any margin
no we didn't give it any margin and so
since we didn't give any margin where is
that coming from
we didn't give any more where it's
coming from
yeah it's coming default from the
browser and so uh we're actually going
to see this
in a bit i'm going to show you how to
get rid of these defaults right like i i
don't maybe i don't want this default
margin coming from the border maybe i
want to start fresh maybe i want to
start without having all these margins
so i'm going to show you in a few
minutes how to get rid of these defaults
if you don't want them but this
inspector tool right click inspect can
really save you a lot of time right i
look at this box every single day you
could do
and it can show you all the stuff that's
actually being computed and added and
it's just really helpful
the other neat thing i just want to come
back here real quick to the css
i did
padding left
but i didn't have to do that there's
something else you can do
if i just use the word padding
and i do 30 pixels what this is going to
do
is it's going to apply 30 pixels of
padding
on every single side so let's go back
let's refresh right now we can see that
there's only 30 on the left
but as soon as i refresh
can see it visually right
we can also see it here that we've gone
ahead and added 30
to each
to each side
right
so when you do
when you do just the 30 pixels it's
going to add it on all sides
and it does it right it does it in a
clockwise fashion so it's going to go
top
right bottom
left and so you can actually override
these uh in
the the the line here i can do
30 pixels
if i save that and i go back it's always
clockwise exactly always clockwise if i
go back we go back to where we
originally were when i said padding left
because what i've done right
what i've done
is i have given it zero on the top zero
on the right zero on the bottom but 30
on the left and so you can you can do
that
one for each direction
top right bottom left okay the other
cool thing is it it'll repeat itself
so if i was to do let's say um
supposed to do like 30 pixels zero
right
if i was doing 30 pixel zero what it's
going to do
is it'll do 30 pixels on the top
zero on the right
30 pixels on the bottom and then zero on
the left so it'll it'll double up for
you right and so if we save this and we
go back
you can see that we have it
on the top and the bottom but none on
the left or the right so
when you are writing your css you can do
the hyphenated padding hyphen left
hyphen padding padding hyphen right
padding hyphen top padding hyphen bottom
or you can use these um kind of
shortcuts that we just talked about and
it works the same with margin as well it
works the same with margin
that works the same with margin uh what
do i use i typically use the shorthand
yeah
all right so let's put it back to
adding left just a little bit more
readable
there we go all right
please make the h2 25 pixels
let's go and target our h2 here
let's go ahead and do um
font size
25 pixels
cool
let's go ahead and add padding on the
top and bottom so we can use the trick
that we just did
we can do padding
all right we can do padding and we can
do out top and bottoms let's let's do
let's get wild with it 50 pixels on the
top and then zero on the left and right
and so that'll do 50 on the top zero on
the right 50 on the bottom and zero on
the left with that short hand
right
uh remember this this will repeat itself
so it's gonna be fifty zero fifty zero
uh and then the last thing here is uh oh
sorry it's two more things here thick
gold border border
let's go ahead and do uh 20 pixels
solid
gold
it's really thick and then a margin on
the top and bottom so let's go ahead and
do margin
and we'll do the same thing 20 pixels
zero it's going to add 20 on the top
zero on the right 20 on the bottom zero
on the left
all right let's check out this h2
we look at our h2s if we were to right
click inspect on it
right you can see that it's highlighted
in the html we scroll down
we can actually see the compute it we
can see that there's uh the 50 on the
top 50 on the bottom 20 on the top 20 on
the bottom and as you highlight through
you can see the colors changing as we
roll over so here's the element here's
the padding here's the border here's the
margin
nice
sir exactly
all right let's do the next one here
please make the spans have a thin black
border okay
so let's just do border uh two pixels
solid black
cool a little padding
they went padding on all sides let's go
ahead and do 10 pixels oh that's that's
a little too much maybe five pixels
cool
and blue
color
blue
nice let's save it up see what we got
yeah look at these spans if we right
click on one of the spans
and we inspect it
we're going to see that we've got the
padding on all sides
uh it's got the border and we're doing
good here
cool
and we had one more here
please make the section 20 width
all right so let's go ahead and do a
width
of 20 25 so here
a 200 pixels tall so height
200 pixels tall
centered with a thin purple border so
let's do border first
border two pixels
solid
purple
and what did you all do to center it
what did you all do to center it
ah
you did margin zero let's talk about it
margin
zero auto so what this is gonna do
is it's gonna put zero on the top
auto on the right zero on the bottom and
auto on the left and so when we do that
what it does
is it centers it right
that margin zero auto will help center
it for us uh it's a little bit of a
trick for now we'll do we'll get to way
better kind of positioning systems in
the future but for now
since we're learning about margin we can
we can use that that margin trick where
it's going to repeat itself
zero
auto zero auto right
cool
eventually when we get to flex and other
stuff it's different and easier but
since we're dealing with the box model
and some margin now we'll throw in the
margin zero auto
cool
all right we got about 20 minutes left
folks 20 minutes of fun
dig deep this is this was a this has
been a
it's been a it's been a long one but a
fun one right long one but a fun one
all right
your classifier hey
here
all right
i have put together a template for you
all
uh starting from scratch can be a little
bit difficult right like you have to
create the folder and then you have to
create the html file then you got to
create the css file and then you got to
link the css to your html file you gotta
make sure you did it all right and so
what i did is i made a template for you
so instead of having to do it from
scratch every single time
right so if i can do it from scratch
every single time you can just open up
my template and make a new fresh copy of
the template each time and when you make
a copy of the template right we make a
copy of the template
you can just start with that so let's go
ahead and take a look at the starter
template
and close what we just did
and um
it's aptly named template
so if we look at template there's html
there's actually a space for our
javascript that we're not going to touch
yet right
and there's css but there's a bunch of
stuff in the css
right a bunch just a bunch of stuff in
the css
we're going to look at the stuff that
we're familiar with first we're going to
talk about it all right so here's the
html we got the lovely doctype at the
top letting us know that we're using
html5
our html has the lang preference lang en
short for english letting us know that
that's gonna be the base language here
you're gonna see some meta
tags here
the first one is our utf-8
and utf-8 is just letting us know
what type of characters we're using and
basically utf-8 has every
type of character you can think of okay
next we have the description
uh that's what can kind of help show up
when you google a website right like
that can that's that's what can show up
when you when you go to you go to google
something right um
that description can pop up
the meta these keywords used to be
really important now not so much
uh so back in the day right back in the
day there were
what we called keyword stuffing so
google would come to your site and they
were trying to figure out what your site
was about and they would look at your
meta tags right and so based on what
we're in your meta tags right based on
what we're in your meta tags uh they
would say all right this is what your
site is about okay
so what do you think people started
doing uh when search engines start
looking at their meta tags to figure
what their site was about
they don't really do this anymore back
in the day they did
they put every single thing in there if
you had a dog food website you had every
type of dog in every color of dog you
had every shape of dog in every single
thing about dogs and those keywords and
so then what then what google said is
hey
if you if you put so many keywords in
your meta characters we're just going to
ignore them right
and so then what people did is instead
of having all the meta keywords in the
meta tag they would come on the page and
they would put all of their keywords
in the body
and then just make them white so they
wouldn't show up to the user they were
there for google but they wouldn't show
up in the in for the user right
and so google saw this right google saw
this and they were like wait a minute
that's keyword stuffing they actually
started docking you for all these bad
behaviors and so
it's seo or search engine optimization
is like a cat and a
cat and a mouse game here right where
you um
you figure out a little a little trick
or hack
and then google penalizes you and you
got to figure out more and then they
penalize you again and so
there's all these things that used to be
there but aren't there
there is something missing from the the
top or this meta area here and that's
our viewport when we get to
responsiveness we're going to come back
and add one more thing here which is
viewport but right now that won't make
too much sense because we haven't gotten
the response in this yet but no there's
gonna be one other thing we'll add here
for viewport that'll help folks when it
comes to accessibility
uh title is what shows up like in the
tab
right like see like the stuff that shows
up in these tabs here that's what comes
from the title
and then here's the real meat and
potatoes for tonight
we have two different style sheets here
that i'm linking to
right
two different style sheets that i'm
linking to here i have normalize and
then i have my like normal style sheet
okay
right
i have my normalize and then i have my
actual style sheet
right
and so what what this does is that
there's two extra css files in here
right there's a normalize and there's a
reset
right there's a
and there's a reset
what
reset will do like if you if you were to
link reset here first instead of
normalize
what reset will do
is it will scorch the earth it will get
rid of every single default style that
comes from the browser we saw that
margin that was coming default in the
browser right reset gets rid of
everything right it gets rid of every
single default style right and you start
from
absolute scratch your h1s are going to
look exactly like your spans right
there's there's no difference
for me
i got used to
the default styling i wouldn't want to
have to start from
nothing right i would just find that too
awkward it would take me too long and so
i use normalize what normalized means is
that i keep
some of the default styling it's just
that that default styling is consistent
across every browser so my h1 will be
the same font size in every single
browser um and so it's up to you
some of my students really like
normalize because they're already kind
of used to the default styling and some
of my students hate it and they love
reset because they rather start from
nothing right so it's up to you it's one
of your first real decisions as a
front-end developer are you going to use
normalize
are you going to are you going to use
reset you can kind of choose one and go
with it but i've included both for your
enjoyment all right and then the last
thing here is we have a link to our
javascript we're not ready for that
one thing i want to show you in the
default style sheet is that i've
included the box model hack for you
and i've included some other kind of
handy things that might help you if
you're using floats so we have the box
model hack we have clear fix and we have
clear and then we have some like just
maybe some ways that you can start
organizing your css don't worry about
this for now when we start actually
using the template we start practicing
we'll go all we'll go over all this
stuff as we get deeper into layout we'll
we'll talk more about clear fix and all
that fun stuff we talked a little bit
about it during office hours but we're
going to see it a lot more next week so
this is a template for you
i recommend
uh just keeping a clean copy on your
desktop right that's what i do i just
have a i have a zip file
i have the template zip file on my
desktop and whenever i need to start a
new project i just double click on it
and i drag my desktop and we're gonna
we're gonna we're going sorry drag it to
vs code and we're gonna add a few more
things to it like i said over time as we
get deeper into
uh responsiveness we'll add some stuff
so as we get deeper into javascript
we'll add some stuff but it's a good
place to start
all right
you had some layouts that were due for
homework right
um you had some some layouts that were
due for a homework that that um
i asked you to work on and there's three
of them
and i asked you to use floats
how dare right and so what i want to do
is i want to talk briefly about floats
again and i want to do the first one
together we're going to talk a little
bit about responsiveness and then we'll
end with a raid so
remember what floats
we're we're here for
a good time not a long time right as
drake would say uh because we're only
going to use them for a little while
all right we're only going to do them
for a little while
and we're going to use them to help
maybe understand a little bit more about
the box model right uh we're gonna we're
going to uh use them to help aid our
idea of like how things sit next to
other things right and then we're gonna
move on to flex and all the other good
stuff that can come so here we have uh
this idea floats when you float an
element it wants to go up as much as it
can go and to the left as much as it can
go if you're floating it left
and if you float it right it's going to
go up as much as it can go and to the
right as much as it can go fighting to
get into those corners
right and so the side effect when you
float stuff is that it winds up sitting
next to each other
all right
so here is the first layout
if we are looking at this layout
um
we can kind of maybe make some guesses
we don't really have enough content to
make the pure semantic decisions that we
would need to make right
the pure semantic decisions that we need
to make we just don't have enough
content to make them so we're going to
use our best guesses so if you were kind
of just taking your best guess what
might you make this
what could that be
better
how about this one
yep footer
and then
for all three of these what could you
have used we start all
five of those what could you have used
just a section right section so what i
did is i did
header footer section section section
section section
cool all right let's uh let's use our
template and see if we can build this
out quickly
all right so i know in the body i'm
going to have
my header
beautiful
and i know i'm going to have my section
and i know i'm going to have
like
i was gonna have
uh five of these
and then i'm gonna have my footer
so i have my header
one two three four five sections and a
footer
when i don't have content inside i like
to keep them on the same line right some
people still like to always break them
but
if i um
if i
want to
if i if i'm going to put in content then
i keep them on the same line yeah
cool
all right so we got the header we got
our sections we got our footer if we
look at the image
we could make all the sections the same
except for maybe the bottom two
right so what i'm going to do is i'm
going to give these bottom two sections
a class
and they're big and on the bottom so i'm
going to give these last two
i'm going to give these last two
a class
of big bottom
there we go
so those two sections have the class big
bottom
and uh i don't like using like numbers
in my class names or anything like that
so i don't like using like
two sections or something like that
because
um
you just run into trouble when you use
numbers because what if somebody came
along and like put another section here
and then this one's called one and this
one's called two right it just doesn't
make sense so i try to be descriptive of
what they are they're big and they're on
the bottom so big bottom cool
let's go ahead and start writing out our
css
i have like a place for my layout here
and i'm just gonna i'm gonna combine my
header and footer into one go right like
if we if we look the header and footer
are exactly the same so what we're going
to do
is we're going to do our header and then
do our comma footer
right
footer
and let's just go ahead and give it a a
height
of 100 pixels
let's give them a border
of um
two pixels
solid black
and i think that's we'll do for now and
let's go ahead and open this in the
browser and see what we get
all right so we got our header that's
showing up
right
we got a header showing up
and we got the
the footer that's showing up
cool
you have to set the width because we
want them to be the full width anyway
uh so that's the header and footer
and then let's just go ahead and get
those sections done so section
uh we know if we look
that by default we probably just want
our sections to be like 33 percent width
um and then we'll fix the other two
sections with the class
so i'm going to go ahead and give them a
height i don't know let's get a little
bit more height than the let's do like
300 pixels of height let's give them a
width of
33.333 percent repeating of course
uh and then let's give them a border two
uh let's do two pixels solid black and i
don't care i don't have to calculate the
border here why
why don't i have to calculate the border
here
yeah because i have the border box up
top right
i already gave you the bangers here
right i already gave you the box sizing
border box for you and the template you
don't have to remember it anymore it's
just there for you
looking out for y'all what can i say
all right let's go ahead and save this
and see where we're at
beautiful all of our sections here one
two three four five then the footer
so let's go ahead and get them sitting
next to each other
uh maybe we can just like float them as
well
cool
now they should be sitting next to each
other
and we have a problem
what happened to our footer
yeah it slid on it slid on up it
collapsed right well it slid up
we had our
we had our we had our sections here
and our footer was nice and good but as
soon as we floated the sections this
footer went zoop and slid up underneath
until it hit the header right so we need
that clear both i see you all in chat
let's go ahead and put a clear both on
our footer we're also technically
putting on the head on the header it
just doesn't matter
cool
all right looking good we just need
these last two sections the big bottoms
uh to be
wider right we need them to be wider
they're 33 percent right now we just got
to make them 50
and so let's go ahead and create our
class here
uh big
bottom
and let's give it a width of 50 percent
right
i think that should do it
boom there we go we got our we got our
layout right
header footer three sections two bigger
sections on the bottom um maybe if
you're like looking at it maybe these
are a little bit taller in height maybe
uh maybe these are a little bit shorter
you could play around the the specifics
here but we got the layout right we got
the layout cool
so we got the layout uh if
you want to see the other two layouts
we're gonna do those during office hours
and we'll also take a look at the simple
leon lab as well so this office hours
will probably be a little less questions
and a little bit more code so if you
want to see the other ones come through
chill office hours we'll chill out we'll
hang we'll go through these layouts and
then as we have extra time
we'll answer questions as well
i remember the and the those office
hours are always vods here on twitch you
can always go back and watch them
cool all right
i want to hint at one more thing and i
when i say hint
i really do mean a hint i don't want to
go too deep into it all next week will
be responsiveness and so i just want to
i just want to
slightly
slightly kind of
slightly kind of just like
peek into
this realm of responsiveness
okay
and so what we want to do is i just want
to cover responses just a little bit and
then all next week will be
responsiveness so when i talk about
responsive websites what do i mean i
mean about
i mean that i want our sites to be able
to look good across all of our devices i
want them to look good on desktops
tablets mobile phones right i don't want
them to just be for one screen right and
so when it comes to building responsive
websites uh there's some there's things
we got to keep in mind some things we
have to learn on how to do this
and what do i mean by responsive well
we can actually see examples of what
fixed websites used to look like and
what more modern responsive websites
look like so if we look
here is
ups website
from 2017.
this is from april of 2017. look at this
look at all this white space
you opened it up it this is not this is
not me messing it up
this is not me like oh leon they had
some like no this is this is what it
looked like when you opened it up they
just did not care they like you had all
this extra screen you could do whatever
the heck you want with this right
um and they just didn't care right uh so
this is what we call a fixed website
we're gonna talk through next week like
maybe why such a large company still had
a fixed site and like why it was this
bad but this is the idea of fix it's not
responsive
it won't look good across any of your
devices there's a lot of white space on
the other hand we have a site that's
like really responsive
and if we look at it you can see as i
make the window smaller
you can see that like we we drop
that column that was on the on the right
hand side that column disappeared as we
get even smaller the other column
disappears and we just kind of start
focusing on the stuff that matters right
and so you can see on on like a mobile
type screen size it's just like the
important news
and as we get bigger we add more stuff
right and so the cool thing about
boston.com is that it's a news website
right it's a news website so what do you
think fundamentally changed about how
people consumed the news not too long
ago
what do you think fundamentally changed
about how people consume the news
yeah if you're in a metro area right if
you're in a metro area
and you want to consume new news right
you want to consume news well guess what
you probably
consumed news on your mobile phone
and if this site wants to keep you as a
user if they want to keep you
as somebody that's going to read their
news and and see their ads they need to
make their site look good on mobile
phone they need to make their site look
good on tablet so that when people are
like peak news reading while they're on
their commute they
get
to keep that audience right and so
boston.com used to have a horrible
website and then they went really full
born on responsiveness because it really
does help them like everybody's on
phones right now like the the mobile
revolution changed everything when steve
jobs walked on that stage and said
iphone it everything changed there was
mobile phones before that but that that
changed right and a lot of most internet
traffic is mobile traffic now so if your
site does not look good across these
devices then um
that's it
cool
all right
let me talk about the mechanism that
makes this happen and then we'll do our
we'll end for the night and we'll do our
raid the mechanism that enables our
sites to be responsive is something
called a media query
we can add media queries to our site and
what that's going to enable us to do is
it'll give us the ability
to display certain rules
right certain rules
at certain screen sizes
so this rule right here would only exist
between 0 pixels and 600 pixels wide and
let me i'm just going to copy this i'm
going to show it
in our template from the layout we just
did
and so here's the layout
and what i'm going to do is in my i'm
going to go down here to additional
styles i'm going to put this media query
and i'm going to say between 0 and
let's say 0 and 800 pixels let's make
our sections have a background of blue
alright we're just hinting i just want
to show you right i just want to show
you the uh
how this could work right so here it is
it's a media query we're saying between
a screen size of 0 and 800 these rules
should take effect so this background
blue
should only happen right should only
happen between 000 and 800 pixels let's
go ahead and save
let's go back to our layout
let's refresh
and then let me let me start shrinking
this screen size here
[Music]
i hit 800 pixels
and boom it changed blue
go above 800 pixels that rule does not
apply
under 800 pixels blue above 800 pixels
that rule does not apply and so with
these media queries we can start to add
some real magic to our sites we can
start to be able to look at the viewport
or the size of the screen and start
making changes when it comes to
responsiveness we're not just talking
about style we're also talking about
content decisions so that's the big goal
for next week the big goal for next week
is we know a little bit about layout we
can start to layout these sites real
cool we're going to start building more
sites um with better and more
feature-rich layouts next week we're
going to get some practice in on sunday
with layout so if you want to see the
other three layouts that we had for
homework come on office hours we'll do
them together
we will have our alumni
uh twitter space tomorrow at 6 00 p.m
don't worry i'll share it in discord and
i'll send out an email too
and then next week we get into
responsiveness making our layouts look
good across different devices you have a
lot of reading to do for homework so
please don't ignore the reading for
homework next week's going to be a
little bit more difficult as we get into
response in this and so definitely want
to be on top of the reading uh we're
going to go ahead and do a raid um
this person's bio is i'm just building
robots and being kind
that sounds like our kind of people uh
so we're gonna go ahead and set them a
raid
if you're new around here rays get you
more channel points
you want those sweet sweet channel
points
do more
you're on the channel but hey hope you
had a fun class hope you had some fun
getting your practice in
hope you had some fun
uh
playing around
with all the new
kind of layout stuff and we'll get more
practice in
on
sunday and then i will see you all
tomorrow maybe for the for the for the
twitter space and maybe i'll see you
next class as well all right folks have
a wonderful rest of your day evening
morning wherever you're coming from
let's go ahead
and read